## Travelling Salesperson

vm1084 ... lots

The travelling salesperson problem (TSP) is as follows; "Given a list of cities and the distances between  each  pair of  cities,  what  is the  shortest  possible  route that  visits  each  city  exactly once and returns to the origin city". The problem was first formulated in 1930 andis one of the   most   intensively   studied   problems   in   optimization.   Even   though   the   problem   is computationally  difficult,  a  large  number  of  heuristics  and  algorithms  are  known,  so  that some instances with tens of thousands of cities can be solved completely and even problems with millions of cities can be approximated within a small fraction of 1%optimal distance


1. loadTSP(filename) (4marks). 
    Write thisp5.js function that  will read  a  TSP  problem from a .tsp file.
    For this assignment, we  will  only  consider  Euclidean  distance problems.
    The  information  you  need  to  load  in  includes  theproblem  name,total number  of  cities, the  id of each  city, and  the  co-ordinatesof those  cities.
    You couldstore  the city  informationas  3  parallel  arrays  (ids,  xcords,  ycoords)  or  an  array  of objects  with  an  id, x  and  y  value.
    You  can  find  the  TSPLIB  documentation  and  the dataset  with  Euclidean  only  problems  on  the  course  website.
    Your  function  should take the name of a .tsp file to load.
    Hint:Reading the TSPLIB.pdf file can be a little daunting. Have a look at some of the actual .tsp files (berlin52.tsp, a280.tsp). It should make the problem seem a lot easier.


2. showLoadedTSP()(4marks). 
    Write this function that will visualise a loaded problem. 
    You will need to find a way to scale the loaded problem to fit correctly on the canvas. 
    You  may  choose  what  shapes/colours  to  use  to  visualise  the  problem.
    You  should make  sure  you  display  the  problem  name  and  number  of  cities  somewhere  on  the canvas.


3. showSolution(solutionFile)(4marks).
 Write this function that will visualise a solution to a loaded problem from a file.
 You may assume that this function will only be used AFTER showLoadedTSP() has already been run.
 The first line of a .sol file contains the problem file name (you should check this matches the loaded TSP).
 The second line contains  the tour  length,  and the  rest  of  the file  containsa list of ID’s (one on each line) that represents the order that the cities should be connected to form the shortest tour. 
 You should display the solution tour distance on the canvas.Some sample .sol files have been provided on the course website.

01. Challenge(3 marks):
  Make the program animate the tour.
  The program should show the salesman starting from the first city andsmoothlymoving between all the cities leaving the tour as a trail behind them until they reach the last cityand return back to the first one.
  You can loop this animation if you wish.

02. Extra / Bonus:(No marks, just kudos).
    Investigate algorithms to solve tsp problems.
    You could  start  with  Greedy  search,  and  then  move  on  to  something  like  2-opt.
    Try  and implement  a  solver  to  generate  your  own  solutions  to  TSP  problems.
    This  is  advanced work and not part of the course. Do this AFTER finishing everything else