Question 1(15 marks)–Super Speed Sprint Racer
In p5.play, sprites provide some additional functionality over normal images.Using p5.play, create a simple top-down racing gamesimilar to Super Sprint (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Super_Sprint) but simpler,with the following specifications:

[7]The program should read a track in from a file called ‘track.txt’. 0 should indicate grass, 1 should indicate track and 2 should indicate start/finish line. You should find/draw appropriate images to use as tiles to represent thesecomponents, and it is recommended that you load them in as sprites. Each ‘tile’ should have dimensions controlled by variables, andbe positioned according to the input file. If the input file is 10x10 numbers, you should draw this many tiles.The track is static, so this could be drawn in the setup phase, but you will need access to this data for detecting the car leaving the track(3 marks)
[1O]The program should draw a car as a sprite on the start finish line, facing one of the adjacent road tiles.You could draw or find a suitable image to use.The car size should be controlled by a variable(but always smaller than the tile size)and be placed in the middle of the road. (2 marks)
[1O]The program should allow for 4 inputs –up/down and left/righton the keyboard. Up and down should modify the velocity of the car (you should impose limits so it cannot go too fast or backwards). Left and right should rotatethe angleit is facingand moving. This should be done in a smooth wayso the car cannot execute instant 90 degree turns. (4marks)
[1O]If the car leaves the track and hits the grass, the game should reset to the start position (simply move thecar back to its initial position) (3marks)
[1O]Extra (3marks): Add additional features to your mini-game –car physics, animation, sound, gameplay mechanics, track features, or other.For this question, we are not assessing your ability to write a full game (Milestone 2 covers this), butare more interested in demonstrating your ability to use p5.play and other features